.TH PTP_OCP 4 "2024-01-15" "Linux" "Devices"
.SH NAME
ptp_ocp \- PTP OCP (Open Compute Project) hardware clock driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <linux/ptp_clock.h>
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBptp_ocp\fR driver provides support for PTP OCP (Open Compute Project) hardware timestamping cards. These cards are designed to provide highly accurate time synchronization for datacenter and telecommunications applications.

The driver creates PTP hardware clock devices that can be accessed through the standard Linux PTP clock API. Each supported card typically provides:

.IP \(bu 4
High-precision PTP hardware clock
.IP \(bu 4
Multiple GPIO pins for input/output signals
.IP \(bu 4
Support for periodic output generation
.IP \(bu 4
External timestamp capture
.IP \(bu 4
Hardware-based frequency adjustment

.SH DEVICE NODES
The driver creates character device nodes under \fI/dev/\fR with names following the pattern \fBptp\fIN\fR, where \fIN\fR is a number starting from 0.

Example device nodes:
.TP
.I /dev/ptp0
First PTP OCP device
.TP
.I /dev/ptp1
Second PTP OCP device

.SH SYSFS INTERFACE
The driver provides various attributes under \fI/sys/class/ptp/ptp\fIN\fR/:

.TP
.I clock_name
Read-only. Name of the PTP clock.
.TP
.I max_adjustment
Read-only. Maximum frequency adjustment in parts per billion.
.TP
.I n_alarms
Read-only. Number of programmable alarms.
.TP
.I n_external_timestamps
Read-only. Number of external timestamp channels.
.TP
.I n_periodic_outputs
Read-only. Number of periodic output channels.
.TP
.I n_pins
Read-only. Number of configurable pins.
.TP
.I pins/
Directory containing pin configuration files.

.SH IOCTLS
The device supports the standard PTP clock ioctls defined in \fI<linux/ptp_clock.h>\fR:

.TP
.B PTP_CLOCK_GETCAPS
Get clock capabilities.
.TP
.B PTP_CLOCK_GETTIME
Get current time.
.TP
.B PTP_CLOCK_SETTIME
Set current time.
.TP
.B PTP_CLOCK_ADJTIME
Adjust time.
.TP
.B PTP_CLOCK_ADJFREQ
Adjust frequency.
.TP
.B PTP_EXTTS_REQUEST
Request external timestamps.
.TP
.B PTP_PEROUT_REQUEST
Configure periodic output.
.TP
.B PTP_PIN_GETFUNC
Get pin function.
.TP
.B PTP_PIN_SETFUNC
Set pin function.

.SH MODULE PARAMETERS
The driver accepts the following module parameters:

.TP
.B debug
Debug level (0-7). Higher values produce more verbose output.
.TP
.B force_enable
Force enable device even if not properly detected.

.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
The driver supports PTP OCP cards with the following PCI vendor/device IDs:

.IP \(bu 4
Vendor ID: 0x1d9b (Facebook/Meta)
.IP \(bu 4
Various device IDs for different card models

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Load the driver:
.B modprobe ptp_ocp
.TP
Check if device is detected:
.B ls /dev/ptp*
.TP
Get device capabilities:
.B testptp \-d /dev/ptp0 \-c
.TP
Show sysfs attributes:
.B ls /sys/class/ptp/ptp0/

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /dev/ptp*
PTP character device nodes.
.TP
.I /sys/class/ptp/ptp*/
Sysfs attributes for PTP devices.
.TP
.I /proc/interrupts
Interrupt information (search for ptp_ocp).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ptp4l (1),
.BR phc2sys (1),
.BR testptp (1),
.BR ptp_clock (7)

.SH AUTHORS
Jonathan Lemon <jonathan.lemon@gmail.com> and other contributors.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2021-2024 Meta Platforms, Inc. and the Linux kernel contributors.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.