.TH PTP4L 1 "2024-01-15" "LinuxPTP" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ptp4l \- PTP Boundary/Ordinary Clock
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ptp4l
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] [\fICONFIG_FILE\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBptp4l\fR is an implementation of the PTP Boundary Clock and Ordinary Clock from the IEEE 1588 standard. PTP was developed to provide very precise time coordination of LAN connected computers.

The program reads configuration files or command line options to configure the PTP clock. When operating as a boundary clock, the program may have multiple network interfaces, each with its own clock characteristics.

When used with PTP hardware, \fBptp4l\fR can achieve sub-microsecond synchronization accuracy.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-f " " \fIFILE\fR
Read configuration from \fIFILE\fR. The default configuration file is /etc/ptp4l.conf.
.TP
.BR \-i " " \fIINTERFACE\fR
Specify a PTP port by network interface. This option may be given multiple times.
.TP
.BR \-p " " \fI/dev/ptpX\fR
Specify the PTP hardware clock device to use. Without this option the first available clock will be used.
.TP
.BR \-s
Enable slave only mode. In this mode the clock will never enter the master state.
.TP
.BR \-m
Print messages to stdout instead of syslog.
.TP
.BR \-q
Don't print messages to stdout.
.TP
.BR \-v
Prints the software version and exits.
.TP
.BR \-l " " \fILEVEL\fR
Set the maximum syslog level of messages which should be printed or sent to the system logger. The default level is LOG_INFO(6).
.TP
.BR \-u " " \fIADDRESS\fR
Specify the address of the unix domain socket for receiving management messages. The default address is /var/run/ptp4l.
.TP
.BR \-2
Select the IEEE 802.3 network transport.
.TP
.BR \-4
Select the UDP IPv4 network transport. This is the default transport.
.TP
.BR \-6
Select the UDP IPv6 network transport.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration file contains sections for global options and per-port options. The global section starts with the [global] tag, while port sections start with the interface name in square brackets.

Example configuration:
.nf
[global]
verbose                 1
time_stamping           hardware
tx_timestamp_timeout    50
use_syslog              1
logSyncInterval        -3
logMinDelayReqInterval -3
logAnnounceInterval     1
domainNumber            0
priority1               128
priority2               128
clockClass              248

[eth0]
network_transport       UDPv4
delay_mechanism         E2E
.fi

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/ptp4l.conf
Default configuration file.
.TP
.I /var/run/ptp4l
Default unix domain socket for management interface.
.TP
.I /dev/ptp*
PTP hardware clock devices.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR phc2sys (1),
.BR pmc (1),
.BR testptp (1),
.BR timemaster (1)

.SH AUTHORS
Richard Cochran <richardcochran@gmail.com> and the LinuxPTP development team.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2011-2024 Richard Cochran and the LinuxPTP project contributors.
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.